
There are two separate issues  here.

1) The container is running, but the load balancer marks it unhealthy

The workload itself appears healthy from the orchestration platform’s point of view:

Running

Ready=True

Restarts=0


But the external load balancer target shows:

target <private-ip>:<port>

Unhealthy

Health status detail: Request timed out


That usually means something is listening on the port, but the application is not returning the HTTP health-check response the load balancer expects, or the load balancer cannot reach the target correctly.

The key clue is the mismatch:

Platform probes use a TCP socket check

Load balancer health check uses HTTP


So the platform is only checking:

> “Is something listening on this port?”



while the load balancer is checking:

> “Does this endpoint return a valid HTTP response?”



Those are not the same thing.


---

2) The batch process is failing because of duplicate inserts

The logs show a database uniqueness error:

DuplicateKeyException

Duplicate entry ... for key ... PRIMARY


That means the application is trying to insert data for the same business key more than once.

In other words, the collector/job is not idempotent.

What idempotent means

If the same collection runs more than once for the same input, it should produce the same final database state:

not an error

not duplicate rows

not corrupted data


Non-idempotent behavior looks like this:

first run → insert succeeds

second run for the same key → insert fails with duplicate key


Idempotent behavior looks like this:

first run → row is created

second run for the same key → row is skipped or updated

final table state remains correct


This matters because retries happen naturally during:

restarts

redeployments

overlapping schedules

manual reruns

partial failures followed by retry



---

Diagnosis

A. The load balancer health issue is probably not caused by a crash

Because the workload is still marked healthy internally, the more likely causes are:

the application does not respond quickly on the health-check path

the load balancer health-check path is wrong

network/security rules block the load balancer from reaching the target

the application accepts the TCP connection but hangs before returning HTTP


B. The duplicate-key issue is likely caused by scheduler/job design

Running scheduled collection logic inside a long-running replicated service is risky.

Duplicate processing can happen because of:

the scheduler running more than once for the same time window

overlap during rollout/restart

multiple replicas

duplicate input records

retries after partial success


If the same batch runs twice, both executions may try to insert the same primary key.


---

What to fix first

1) Test the application locally inside the container

Run HTTP checks from inside the running container/process environment:

curl -sv --max-time 5 http://127.0.0.1:<port>/
curl -sv --max-time 5 http://127.0.0.1:<port>/health

Interpretation:

if / hangs, the application endpoint is the problem

if /health works but / hangs, the load balancer health-check path should use /health

if both work locally but the load balancer still times out, the issue is likely network/security related


2) Use HTTP probes for an HTTP service

If the application is HTTP-based, readiness and liveness checks should also use HTTP, not only TCP.

Example:

readinessProbe:
  httpGet:
    path: /health/readiness
    port: <port>

livenessProbe:
  httpGet:
    path: /health/liveness
    port: <port>

The load balancer health check should ideally use the same lightweight endpoint.

3) Make database writes idempotent

Use a retry-safe write strategy such as:

INSERT ... ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE

INSERT IGNORE

delete-and-reload for a known key range

another true upsert pattern supported by the database


The strongest fix is usually an upsert, because it remains safe under retries and concurrency.

4) Prevent multiple schedulers from running the same work

Better patterns include:

using a dedicated scheduled job resource instead of embedding a scheduler in a replicated service

distributed locking

leader election

database-based locking


For batch collection, a dedicated scheduled job is usually cleaner than keeping scheduler logic inside an autoscaled service.

5) If local HTTP works, verify load balancer-to-target networking

Check:

load balancer security rules

target security rules

network ACLs

health-check path and timeout settings

whether the load balancer is targeting instance IPs or workload IPs directly


A timeout with a running process often points to either:

wrong health-check path

network path blocked

application accepts connection but does not return a valid HTTP response in time



---

Root cause summary

Application-side issue:
The batch collector reprocesses the same business key and attempts a plain insert, which fails on the primary key constraint.

Infrastructure-side issue:
Internal readiness is based on a TCP port check, but the external load balancer requires a real HTTP response and is timing out.


---

Recommended end state

batch collection runs as a proper scheduled job, or uses distributed locking

database writes are idempotent

readiness/liveness checks use HTTP

load balancer health checks use a lightweight health endpoint

load balancer-to-target network rules are verified

routing rules are reviewed if more than one application path must be served



